CS181 Practical 4: Swingy Monkey

This is the code for the practical on planning and reinforcement
learning.  There are several files included in this directory.

SwingyMonkey.py -- This is the Python code that implements the game
and renders it on screen.  It has a main function, so you can run it
and play the game by hand if you want.  This will also help make sure
that you have the dependencies installed.  You can play by typing:

bash$ python SwingyMonkey.py

This will bring up a game window and you can make the monkey jump to a
new vine by pushing any key.


stub.py -- This is a simple example of how you can control the Swingy
Monkey game programmatically.  It is a very simple class and script
that makes it jump randomly and has examples of the callbacks and how
to use them.  It turns off the sound and makes the game run super fast
for learning.  You can run it via:

bash$ python stub.py


res/blop.wav, monkey.png, tree-pixel.png, jungle-pixel.png,
screech.wav -- These are media resource files for the game.  There is
no need to modify them.


You'll need to install the pygame module to make this run:
http://pygame.org/ This module seems to depend on SDL
(http://www.libsdl.org/) and you may need to make sure you have a
couple of other libraries installed for loading the PNG files.  I
achieved this using Homebrew with:

bash$ brew install sdl sdl_image sdl_mixer sdl_ttf portmidi

If you have problems and have already Googled for your error message,
post on Piazza for help.  When I installed pygame, I ended up doing it
using pip via Mercurial:

bash$ pip install hg+http://bitbucket.org/pygame/pygame

For that to work, you'll need pip and Mercurial, but these are both
pretty standard things.  On my Mac laptop, I also grabbed these with
Homebrew.  On my desktop, I needed to update a few different things,
such as XQuartz in order to get smpeg and make pygame happy.  Again,
if you have issues with pygame, post on Piazza.




